Before starting to program supply chains using smart contracts,
it's important to understand a little bit about what
supply chains and supply chain management even are.
What's their purpose? How does improving a supply chain help improve a business?
Knowing this will help you understand the solutions you'll be building.
In this video, we'll go over some of the basics behind
supply chain management and discuss some simple examples of how supply chain operates.
Supply chain management is a broad topic
ranging across many aspects of almost all businesses.
It includes everything needed to plan, build,
create, manufacture, and deliver a product.
The supply chain includes everything it takes to get the product a company creates,
from its original materials to
its final product and all the way through the sales process.
The goal of supply chain management is to take all of
this and make it as streamlined and efficient as possible.
By effectively managing the supply chain,
companies are able to create more efficient solutions for their customers,
raise their profits, and lower their costs.
Establishing an effective supply chain takes strong leadership.
On top of that, it takes a ton of tools,
methods and innovations to help companies stay ahead of their competition.
Simple supply chains will include a company,
the suppliers that it gets its material from,
and all of the customers they sell their product to.
While these fundamental stay about the same,
the supply chain can easily get much more complicated.
It can include many more suppliers,
different types of customers,
and entirely new products.
As an example, let's follow the path of a coffee bean as it
makes its way from the farmer all the way to your morning cup of coffee.
Your average coffee bean will go through a few stages.
To name just a few of them, there's growing,
harvesting, packing, shipping, and roasting.
Almost every step along the way involves
a different supplier to help push it to the next stage of its journey.
In this simple example,
even if there were just a single supplier for each stage,
we'd have five companies involved each making
transactions as they distribute this coffee to retailers around the world.
Each new retailer adds a whole new level of
negotiations and interactions that need to be handled effectively.
As you can see already,
this can be an enormous complicated mess that can be difficult to deal with.
As blockchain developers, we care about this
because at the core of every one of these transactions,
there are two main things.
There's either need to establish trust between the companies involved
or there's a need to automate some type of negotiation between these companies.
Both of these things can be done by creating an open and shared ledger
that allows these companies to collaborate and interact more effectively.
Lucky for us, that's exactly what the blockchain provides.
This extends well beyond coffee beans to
anything you can think of from music distribution,
to insurance claims, to car manufacturing.
The list is almost endless.
As you can see, the blockchain can make a huge impact if we
can figure out ways to use smart contracts to improve supply chains.
Coming up, we'll look a little closer at how smart contracts fit into this process.
From there, you'll be in a good position to
start programming some of these solutions for yourself.